# Project 2: Multiagent

## Question 1: In this question, I used the following [point distribution](https://pacman.fandom.com/wiki/Point_Configurations). To begin with, if the next state is a win state then return ∞. If the next state is a lose state then return −∞. Also, the evaluation function takes into consideration the distance from the closest food and whether or not a ghost is in-avoidable is scared or not. If the ghost is scared then increase the total score otherwise return −∞ which indicates a ”bad” move. To sum up, the formula is: $$successorGameState.getScore()+total\_score$$ $$total\_score=10/minimum\_ food\_distance + 200*(2^{number\_of\_dead\_ghosts}).$$

## Question 2: In this question, I implemented a recursive minimax algorithm with the help of one helper function. To make things clear I used the pseudocode provided in the [slides](https://cgi.di.uoa.gr/~ys02/dialekseis2020/anazitisi_me_antipalotita.pdf#page=19) with a small adjustment, combine the min and max value function to the minimax decision function. 

## Question 3: In this question, I implemented a recursive alpha beta search algorithm with the help of one helper function. In order to pass the autograder I implemented the pseudocode provided in the [project page](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs188/sp22/project2/#question-3-5-points-alpha-beta-pruning) which are pretty much the same as the ones presented in the [lecture slides](https://cgi.di.uoa.gr/~ys02/dialekseis2020/anazitisi_me_antipalotita.pdf#page=48) except the equalities. As before I combined the max and min value functions into one. 

## Question 4: In this question, I implemented a recursive expectimax algorithm with the help of one helper function. I used most of the Question 2 code but with some adjustments. When it comes to ghost agents they return the average evaluation which is the sum of all numbers divided by the number of legal moves.

## Question 5: In this question, I used most of the Question 1 code but with some additions and adjustaments. Firstly, now I evaluate the current state so when I’m checking for scared ghosts instead of returning −∞ I divide the total score by half to show that the move is ”bad”. I implemented a for loop where it counts the power pellet that are in maze and calculated the score for the pellets with 50/min pellet distance. Also i add one more condition where if pacman’s action is stop then for every second he is not moving the score is decreasing by -1. The idea for this is taken by the implemented pacman in the project where if it stops moving it will start decresing your score by -1. To sum up, the formula is: 
$$currentGameState.getScore()+total\_score$$ $total\_score=10/minimum\_ food\_distance + 200*(2^{number\_of\_dead\_ghosts}) + 50/minimum\_pellet\_distance.$
